just I think what's interesting about
this is that Nina and Randa came out of
their past experience with a positive
and empowering message that acne is a
problem you can solve if you take
responsibility and you work hard and you
stick to this diet which is not easy
right they came out with this positive
inspiring message saying this is a
problem we can solve for yourself and
unnatural vegan all she's got to say is
no you can't go to the doctor trust what
they say get on the pill I don't even
know what the title for this video is
gonna be yet but I'm opening by
reassuring you that it is not clickbait
I genuinely agree with and support Nina
and Randa on this issue 100% yeah
alright I don't have to like their music
I don't have to like their education and
career choices I don't have to enjoy
their videos that involve challenges
licking other people's bodies or bizarre
thinly veiled pre Texas for forgetting
half naked and asking their boyfriends
embarrassing questions and most of the
time they don't even have a boyfriend
they get some actor to pretend to be
their boyfriend for the purpose of the
video that's that's not what we're
talking about today what we're talking
about today is the clear skin diet and
the clear skin diet my girlfriend is
become an expert in lately because it is
a very slight modification of dr.
MacDougall's yeah it's basically the
mcdougal diet it's the same principles
but I mean in the mcdougal diet some
healthy fats are permitted but
restricted and really they're not not
emphasized in mcdougal diet it's really
a low-fat diet and brutal McDougal plan
but you know for example me and Randa
donate avocados but mcdougal sometimes
can incorporate so it's a slightly
modified form of the mcdougal diet and I
have the book well I have it on
audiobook so mm-hmm no tell me
listen to the love you a cash for the
audiobook dear Anita and Randa in their
dulcet tones in there well forms and the
structure narrating to you the
principles of their diet did you mean
the cheapskate that I am I got an audio
audible right audible Canada free trials
so it was free free was that from
amazon.com so you signed up for a free
trial yeah I think this is the only
video on YouTube that is not a paid
promotion off the bowl that is
mentioning it uh-huh
so you did the paperwork and you
actually got this without paying a dime
I think through the the magic of
capitalism somehow Nina and random will
still get paid even though you didn't
buy the book because you got the free
trial right okay and your overall
feeling is Nina and rather earn that
money this is maybe one corner of their
life in which they've been hard-working
and showed some hustle and Verve and
tenacity right yeah at dedication right
definitely
I mean look let's be fair we've never
really seriously evaluated their
contribution to music or Taco Bell
advertising right not our genre of music
we both just listen to rap and hip-hop
but you know their contribution to the
world of diet okay yeah all right so we
can all appreciate that and they set out
we both saw together I found it and
moving an interesting video one of their
presentations about thirty minutes long
where they talked about the fact that
they were going out and going to
auditions and hustling that these
terrible breakouts that this pretty
brief period of their life with really
extreme acne but then I think you
described it as either cystic acne or
hormonal acne yeah both both all the
above and they managed to get under
control they did manage to in effect
sure their condition by modifying their
diet and what makes this story even more
remarkable is that they didn't do this
by becoming vegan they already were
vegan this is entirely about the
contrast between healthy and unhealthy
diets within veganism and I think that
makes it more interesting that makes it
more compelling and it makes it more
challenging and that brings us to the
top of this video professional
contrarian nincompoop and hit with
unnatural
has decided to pick a fight with Nina
yeah what is up gosh I was so upset
listening to this because at the very
end like right she admits unnatural
weaken admits that she has not had more
than 20 pimples in her life she doesn't
know [ __ ] about this she doesn't know
the [ __ ] heartbreak that comes with
this and I do like I know what it's like
to be on antibiotics for the majority of
my adult years of my teen years I know
what it's like to be told that you're
gonna be put on accutane you're gonna
have to be put on birth control pills to
be on birth control pills since at the
age of 14 like I have just now like you
know decided to stop the medications
that I was taking I mean I know it's
only been a week or whatever but like
you know I seem to be doing totally fine
and you know I have been doing the
mcdougal diet it's a big change in your
life yeah it's a huge change in like
it's from someone that has no experience
with this it really seems in poor taste
for her to be making these claims that
the diet is dangerous to say that so
let's just start with a general
statement of principle mm-hmm it is true
there are some people who dismiss all
medication just because is medication
and that's a problem right yeah so and
you know what I brought this up when we
were talking about antidepressants
another hot-button topic with a natural
vegan I have many videos on this channel
and the most important ones I don't even
speak in where I'm just presenting the
views of experts who dedicated decades
of their lives died when a depressants
nad depressants SSRIs such as prozac are
examples of debunked pseudoscience and
they have very serious negative side
effects however that doesn't mean that
all mind altering drugs or all
medication of this type or all so yeah
drew medication has been debunked a
really interesting contrast are actually
the drugs given to cocaine addicts and
heroin addicts and opiate addicts people
have become added to help them
transition without them quit without
going through tremors and seizures and
fits to ease the pain of withdrawal
symptoms yeah
something you can test empirically that
is the realm of science in a sense that
goes back that Sextus empiric us in
ancient Rome and Athens this is really
the great European tradition of let's
get out our calibers calipers let's get
out our calipers and measure what the
difference is to observation and
computation and we figure out what works
and what doesn't so there are some
people who in a have a blanket hostility
to modern medical science and even to
vitamins and even to you know really
legitimate medicine that can make a
positive difference in your life right
yeah but at the other end at the
opposite extreme and we know a natural
vegan in our own personal life was like
a pendulum that swung from one extreme
to the other
you have people dismissing really
serious side effects yep SSRI
antidepressants like prozac have serious
side effects taking an SSRI during
pregnancy has really serious side
effects
accutane very serious side effects that
she completely brushes off in this label
this is not a conspiracy theory if
you've read the current labels on Prozac
and SSRIs those are pretty scary too
but with accutane this is really serious
and I think your doctors who you never
went on accutane but you were being
prepared to and they were really talking
through with you look you know this is
life altering medication if not life
risking medication yeah yeah I mean like
I said at 14 years old being someone who
wasn't sexually active being told that
it's okay so you're starting this
medication now you have to watch this
informational video sign these forms
that you've watched this video you need
to agree to use two forms of hormonal
contraception
you know so you have to agree to always
use pronouns and you have to be on the
birth control pill as a female alright
so like and you have to as you take the
drug you have to be taking pregnancy
tests each month like you have to go in
and get your blood test on because this
is a very serious drug and you know she
just says the most common side effect
is dry skin the dry skin is no joke with
accutane I've seen photos I've I know
people that have gotten addicted to use
being like chapstick and like
moisturizer constantly because I think
there is joint pain if you like people
that have chronic joint pain after
taking accutane changes in your mood
changes in you know suicidal thoughts
and depressive disorder and it's it's
it's really serious okay most people
that I've you want to talk about a side
effect that's easy to ignore diarrhea
mm-hmm so many medications have listed
those who you just remind of the other
day iron pills iron vitamins among the
side effects is that do you want to know
a really simple side effect that can
completely destroy your life completely
destroy your ability to go on vacation
or walk to the grocery store do anything
diarrhea you think it's a joke
think about the impact diarrhea is you
know if you know what's worse chronic
acne or chronic diarrhea I mean it's
it's a real question but I mean you know
one of the reasons why you lately really
stepped up your game in terms of diet
and health one of the reasons why you
got interested in Nina andas diet
looking at it as a version of the
mcdougal diet was diarrhea yes and we
went through this together
we we thought logically we were going
through a process of oh here I use the
word I was gonna say process of
elimination elimination is a poor where
we thought we were logically deducing
what the causes of her indigestion might
be and it didn't even occur to us that
it was actually some of the pills you
were taking and that even comes down to
a technical matter of the coating on the
pill and when the pill is divided you
don't get the coating and this kind of
thing
then again okay I think we did I think
we were aware of the list of side
effects right but you don't necessarily
think of it you don't think wow you know
in your case and these medications you
were on related to acne ultimately both
of them because of the birth control for
you birth control pill you've gone to
kisaki
it's not the same as binge drinking and
then dealing with a hangover the next
morning
if you get drunk once a month that's one
day out of the month don't do it I'm not
endorsing binge drinking I'm really not
I'm a hundred percent against alcohol
and I'm thinking I should drink alcohol
but there is something really different
about the pervasive influence of a drug
that you take every day day after day
after day and that causes subtle and
pervasive changes throughout your whole
body chemistry there's your whole
hormonal system to try to achieve the
effect of changing you know it's like
the rate of oil going through your skin
it's a very fundamental biological
process to try to try to toy with right
yeah so well who are you gonna say
scientific optimism seems strangely
misplaced and mangled in unnatural
begins you know exactly and I mean as
I've been looking into this more I've
been so distraught and depressed
thinking about the yeah you know years
of my life that I would go to a
dermatologist and they would never say
anything about diet they would just say
acne isn't dependent on diet it's just
your genetics it's just what's going on
with your hormones right now there's
really nothing that you can do in terms
of diet and I give Nina and Randa a lot
of credit for get putting this
information out there if it even if it
doesn't help everyone I think it will
help a significant number of people and
honestly you're only making your diet
healthier by changing to this diet I
mean like the mcdougal diet is basically
the ultimate human diet it's like the
best all right I mean that's right there
are a lot of guests there's a lot of
guess work that goes into diagnosis and
a man it's a really a very different
thing if you're looking at symptoms
you're looking at diarrhea and then
trying to say well could it because by
this could it be caused by that should
you would should you try this drug or
that drug with this or that set of
serious side effects to treat it but
when you're talking about adopting a
diet that you already know
scientifically to be healthier like okay
mmm we're gonna stop eating things like
chocolate bars that we already know are
bad for us a dozen different ways and
we're gonna see what the impacts of that
then it's not really a hard sell at
least on an experimental basis to give
that a try and see see what you can what
you can get yeah and I just want to say
in defense of me and Randa you know
listening to their process in their book
basically like if if you want to try to
introduce foods that in the vegan diet
that have a higher percentage of fat
like if you want to try reintroducing
soy if you want to try reintroducing
avocado they recommend that you you know
you have the strict diet and then you
add things one at a time to see if there
are trigger foods for you and then if
they're they don't cause any problems
for you then you can keep having them in
your diet if you want you know if you
want to have these sources of fats in
your diet so it's not like I don't
appreciate that
like unnatural you can just made this
video by looking at some videos and
looking at their website without knowing
the whole process and yeah overall I
think like the basics of it are really
beneficial for a lot of teenagers who
like it will teach them to be
responsible with their diet to teach
them to like learn about basic cooking
because some of the stuff is just so
easy I mean like you're putting to boil
a potato mash right make beans learn to
use a pressure cooker to make beans and
so on I mean all like beans it's like
how can you say that there's a problem
with that I mean like what it is truth
I'm eating oatmeal which has a
significant percentage of fat I mean if
you look at this ya label it's like so
let me put you this way this is not
quite playing devil's advocate is there
a positive take-home message from what
unnatural vegan as the sale with us well
the reason is because her usual mo seems
to be talked to your doctor get a
prescription get be nationally yeah I
mean the point of her video is to say
that you shouldn't just do this diet you
should listen to your doctor there's a
reason why doctors prescribe accutane
it's so that people can prevent
themselves from having acne scars for
the rest of their lives basically that
you should not do this restrictive diet
it should be the last diet that you
choose if you're trying to alter your
yeah right and her basis for that
is just the fear that it's too low fat
and nothing else yeah right and she's
saying that it doesn't have enough
scientific evidence backing it up which
it can I don't know look among vegan
diets isn't the mcdougal diet maybe the
best it was substantiate it
scientifically it's like you know yeah
yeah well the other bodybuilders will
say this to you but I've been thinking I
think it's true enough when bodybuilders
say it when people say it to um you know
if you have excess protein your body
converts it into fat if your body has
excess fat your body cannot convert it
into protein and probably I am as heavy
as I am right now from excess protein I
eat a very high protein diet yeah I
don't burn it all I don't I don't have
that act of a life whose fault is that
but yeah I don't understand I mean
obviously unnatural vegans to some
extent just traumatized by her own
negative experience with high carb low
fat diets yeah that definitely ends that
includes she was saying that like people
on these kinds of diets will stop
menstruating like stop ovulating like
that was her experience she annamaria
while she was doing a low-fat high-carb
meal plan but obviously she wasn't doing
this she wasn't doing like lots of beans
lots of potatoes lots of vegetables lots
of cream and each meal is a cook through
yeah buddy gonna rock oh yeah it's not
raw everything that issues right now but
that doesn't mean it also includes raw
food raw fruit vegetables and so on so
yeah I mean overall I do think yeah that
you're right that she's you know a
little bit scarred and that she's just I
think what's interesting about this is
that Nina and Randa came out of their
past experience with a positive and
empowering message that acne is a
problem you can solve if you take
responsibility and you work hard and you
stick to this diet which is not easy
right it's not an easy diet as
they said themselves this is not a
magical cure-all this is this is science
this is hard work this is a kind of
self-discipline of eating this getting
on this narrow path they came out with
this positive inspiring message saying
this is a problem you can solve for
yourself and unnatural vegan all she's
got to say is no you can't go to the
doctor trust what they say get on the
pill yeah get on the pill but I know and
I mean I'm not one of these people that
has grown up being anti medication anti
doctor you know I was my first line of
reasoning was to get to the doctor and
see what they say but I have legitimate
reasons to be skeptical about this for
multiple reasons and you know also what
is some ways I owe you a turret yeah
some tight ways now you're looking back
and wondering how much kind of damage
you did yourself is how many years of
your life you lost within the last six
months within the last six months I've
seen really the very negative side
effects of the drugs you're on they're
not serious they're not I mean they're
kameen they're not good they're not
considered even serious medication yeah
but I've seen the impacts that said in
your life in the last six months yeah
and terrible and if if you can solve
this problem I mean it's not far-fetched
I'm sorry why does it seem improbable
that you can deal with look I lived
through rato for also I live through you
know high carb low fat is taking on
these crazy connotations because crazy
people advocated for it durianrider
claimed that you could cure
schizophrenia through diet okay
naturally you should be skeptical about
that he claimed you could solve you
could cure bipolar disorder and Crohn's
disease and all these things okay but if
someone tells you you can impure you
could improve acne you can improve or
cure acne through diet you're telling me
that's so wildly far-fetched that know
that no you should go to your doctor and
trust them as as opposed to there are
other doctors we're in a free market of
idea
one thing really you can't imagine I
can't imagine presenting a sweet potato
based diet which is what nina raedo
specifically they live on sweet potatoes
yeah presenting a sweet potato based
diet is so dangerous that you dare not
even try it except as a last resort I
was so so frustrating to hear her saying
Nina and ranter were born on a vegan
diet so they've never tried other diets
like yeah I swear natural vegan is
really just catering to like people who
are not even vegan you know like she's I
think most reviewers are not even begin
anymore I can tell it a lot of people in
the vegan YouTube you know yeah not one
last word I just want to say I really
appreciate that Nina and Randall also in
their job in their book they talk about
cutting out alcohol they kind of talk
about cutting out smoking they talk
about cutting out caffeine these are all
things that are so commonplace that
right really people don't even think
about their effects on their health on
their skin on and you know the skin is
the largest organ in your body it's
going to be affected by everything that
you put on it and put it into your body
and being aware of that is it's worth
putting this you know putting this
message out all right we're past 20
minutes are you okay no no no so I'm
gonna wrap this up you know I'll just
say this all of us have to deal with the
question of what is healthy and what is
healthy enough if you are not an Olympic
athlete if you are not a competitive
bodybuilder than like me you may make
the choice to include some unhealthy
food in your diet and you may not need
any particular excuses for it it just
doesn't matter that much because there
are things that are objectively healthy
and then there's a lifestyle that's
healthy enough acne especially cystic
acne especially to have extreme acne
Nina and Aranda struggled with it is a
serious disruption it's a disruption
that makes you stop everything go back
to the drawing board and say okay I got
a redesign my diet I got a redesign my
lifestyle I can't live with this I have
to get this one to find a way to live
without it and that's a challenge that's
a challenge millions of people face and
although I have my criticized
Nina and Randa again I respect them for
bringing forth this positive message no
I really do and like I read I have no
respect for our natural vegan on the
other side
[Music]